ISTE TELANGANA SECTION

The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) is a national, professional, non-profit making Society registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860. First started in 1941 as the Association of Principals of Technical Institutions (APTI), it was converted into "Indian Society for Technical Education" in 1968 with a view to enlarge its activities to advance the cause of technological education in the country. ISTE has an Executive Council at National level. It has active membership of more than 97286 technical teachers, 5,66,466 student members, more than 2345 institutional members (including IITs, IISc.., NITs and other leading technical institutions), 1166 faculty chapters and 1280 students’ chapters throughout the country. The major objective of the ISTE is to assist and contribute in the production and development of top quality professional engineers and technicians needed by the industries and other organizations.The major objectives of the ISTE:

• Providing quality training programmes to teachers and administrators of technical institutions to update their knowledge and skills in their fields of activity.
• To assist and contribute in the production and development of top quality professional engineers and technicians needed by the industry and other organisations.
• Providing guidance and training to students to develop better learning skills and personality.

ISTE Telangana Section has been formed from erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh Section, post bifurcation of the state. The aim of the section is to work in line with the national policy in providing value addition to students and faculty of technical institutions.ISTE TELANGANA SECTION COMMITTEE
1. Prof.A.VENUGOPAL REDDY
Vice Chancellor JNTU,Hyderabad,Telangana,India
2. Dr D.N. Reddy
Former Chairman,RAC,DRDO,New Delhi and Member UGC,Govt of India
3. Dr. G. Chakraverti
Director(R&D;) at Mahaveer Institute of Science and Technology
4. Prof.V.Rama Rao
Consultant to Center for Good Governance & Dean at Kshatriya college of Engineering
5. Dr. G. Venkata Subbaiah
Professor,Department of Mechanical Engineering,M.V.S.R
6. Dr.Y.Padma Sai
Professor & Head,Department of E.C.E, VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology.
7. Dr.P.Venkata Ramana
Professor-Mechanical Engineering Department, M.G.I.T-Hyderabad
8. Dr. R.Ram Bhupal Reddy
Deputy Secretary, State Board of Technical Education & Training-Hyderabad
9. Dr. G. Raghu Babu.
Professor, Dept. of Mechanical., VNR VJIET, Hyderabad.
10. Prakash J. Patil
Professor & Head of Department, Vijay Rural Engineering College, Nizamabad
© 2015 All Rights Reserved by ISTE Telangana ISTE
