Dr.G.RAGHU BABU
Member ISTE-TS



State Managing Commitee Member
Professor, Dept. of Mechanical., VNR VJIET,
Hyderabad


Read More
Dr. G. Raghu Babu


1. Educational/ Technical Qualifications Ph.D in Mechanical Engineering from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, India, Awarded in April, 2011.
M.Tech. in Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) from National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Warangal, India; Awarded with Distinction in 2001.
B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering from S.R.K.R Engineering College, Bhimavaram, India, Awarded with First Class in 1999.
Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (DME) at A.A.N.M & V.V.R.S.R Polytechnic, Gudlavalleru, India; Awarded with Distinction in 1994. High School Education (I to X) at Town High School, Gudivada, India.
Teaching Experience: ? 14 years of Teaching Experience for both post graduate and under graduate courses of
Mechanical Engineering.
Presently Working as Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering in School of Technology, GITAM University, Hyderabad from 20th July, 2011 to Till date.
Worked as Associate Professor in Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET), Bachupally,
Kukatpally,Hyderabad, from 11th June,2005 to 19th July,2011.
Worked as Assistant Professor in Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology (GRIET), Miyapur, Hyderabad, from 04th July, 2001 to 31st may, 2005.

Worked as associate Lecturer for six months in A.A.N.M. & V.V.R.S.R. Polytechnic, Gudlavalleru, Krishna (D.T), A.P. 2. Reviwer & Member of Editorial board for journals:
* i-manager-s Journal on Mechanical Engineering i-manager-s Journal on Material Science
3. Membership in Professional Societies

Indian Welding Society (IWS), Life Member , L 00822 ISTE, Life Member, LM 45691 Institution of Engineers (MIE), M-142649-9 Indian Institute of Welding (IIW), Life Member VIZ/M/R-11345/L Member of the Section Managing Committee of ISTE from Telengana Section
4. Teaching, Research, and Consultancy Profile
4.1 Teaching Interests
CAD/CAM, Robotics, Manufacturing Automation, Intelligent Manufacturing Systems, Advances in CNC Technologies, Metallurgy & Material Science andInstrumentation & Control systems. 4.2 B.Tech/ M.Tech Projects Guided
Guided one M.Tech Project and Six B.Tech Projects on the topics, "Design and Analysis of Turbine blade", "CNC program generation for the machining of aerofoil blade section" and "Design and Fabrication of FSW tools using CATIA V5".
4.3 Research Interests CAD/CAM, CIM, Robotics, FMS and FSW.
5. Outcome of Research 5.1 Papers Published in Reviewed Journals Published the following papers as primary author in International Journals: 1. G.Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti, G.Ranga Janardhana, "An experimental study on the effect of welding parameters on mechanical and microstructural properties of AA 6082-T6 friction stir welded butt joints", Manufacturing Technology & Research - an International Journal, Vol.4, No.3&4, 2008, pp.61-67.
2. Gadde. Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti and G.Ranga Janardhana., (2008) Effect of Welding Parameters on Mechanical and Micro structural Properties of AA 6082-T6 Friction Stir Welded Butt Joints; International Journal of Manufacturing Science and Technology, 2(2), pp. 217-227.
3. Gadde. Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti and G.Ranga Janardhana., (2008) An Experimental study on the Effect of Welding Parameters on Mechanical and Micro structural Properties of AA 6082-T6 Friction Stir Welded Butt Joints; ARPN Journal of Engineering & Applied Sciences, 3(5), pp. 68-74.
National Journals: 1. G.Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti, G.Ranga Janardhana, (2010) Microstructure, tool design and mechanical properties evolution of friction stir welded aluminium alloy, i-manager-s journal on future engineering and technology, Vol.5, No.2, pp. 55-63. 5.2 Papers Presented in International Conferences
1.Gadde. Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti and G.Ranga Janardhana., (2009) Microstructure and Mechanical properties characterization of Friction Stir 6082 Aluminium Alloy Weldments; International Conference on Advanced Manufacturing and Automation at Kalasalingam University, Tamilnadu, India. 2. Gadde. Raghu Babu, K.G.K.Murti and G.Ranga Janardhana., (2010) Experimental investigation of influence of process parameters on tensile strength of Friction stir welded 6082 aluminium alloy joints, 3rd International and 24th All India Manufacturing Technology, Design and research Conference, AIMTDR-2010, 13-15, December 2010, Andhra University College of Engineering (A), Visakhapatnam, India.
6. Work Experience and Training Activities
6.1 Professional Experience
Associate Professor in Department of Mechanical Engineering at VNRVJIET from April 2007 to till date, Assistant professor (June 2005 to April 2007) at VNRVJIET, Asst. Professor (2001-2005) at GRIET, Hyderabad. 6.2 Short Term Training Programs Conducted
1. Conducted 3-Day National Workshop on "Geometric Modeling using CATIA V5 R18- A Practical Approach" forAcademicians, industry personnel and B.Tech. students, during September, 2008.Venue: CAD/CAM Laboratory, VNRVJIET. 6.3 Short Term Training Programs Attended
1. One week Training programme on "CNC Milling using Denford equipment" at MTAB, Chennai, in 2002. 2. 3-Day National Workshop on "Simulation of Manufacturing Systems" at NIT, Warangal, in 2004. 3. 2-Day National Conference on "Recent trends in Manufacturing" at S.R.K.R. Engineering College, Bhimavaram, in 2006. 4. One week refresher course on "Advances in Manufacturing" at S.R.K.R. Engineering College, Bhimavaram, in 2006. 5. 3-Day National Conference on "Advances in Manufacturing & Industrial Engineering" at VNRVJIET, Hyderabad, in 2007. 6. One week training programme "Mission 10X" at JNTU, Hyderabad, in 2008. 7. 3-Day International Conference on "Advanced Manufacturing and Automation" at Kalasalingam University, Tamilnadu, India, in 2009.
7. Co-curricular and Extra-Curricular Activities 7.1 Interests and Hobbies 1. To promote work efficiency and good attitude towards work, in organizations. 7.2 CCA/ECA Involved 1. Chief-Coordinator, National Workshop on "Geometric Modeling using CATIA V5 R18 - A Practical Approach" for Academicians, industry personnel and B.Tech. Students, during September, 2008.Venue: CAD/CAM Laboratory, VNRVJIET. 7.3 Counseling and Mentoring Activity Conducted Counseling sessions for B.Tech Mechanical Engineering Students of III Year 7.4 Monitoring Activities (anti-ragging, general discipline) Conducted class review meetings with student representatives.
8. Laboratory Participation & Student Project Guidance at VNR VJIET 8.1 Involvement in Laboratories
1. Developed state-of-the-art CAD/CAM Laboratory with high end Graphics Workstations and softwares. 2. Cross-Domain Laboratories
To involve in the activities of Design, Drafting and Modeling using CAD/CAM Laboratory by self-initiated projects, like (a) Design and Fabrication of FSW tools using CATIA V5, and (b) Design and Analysis of Turbine blade, as well as other projects as per the need. To invite participation of functional experts from EEE and ECE disciplines, in developing CAD/CAE modules, eg. Design/Drafting of electrical & electronic circuits. 3. Domain Laboratories
To involve in activities of Robotics& Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
4. Academic Laboratories
To involve in CAD/CAM Laboratory & Metallurgy and Material Science Laboratory for Lab. class work and student projects.

8.2 Areas of Guidance
The following projects are under consideration:
(a) Broad Objective:Characterization of FSW Butt Joints. Scope of work: The work involves development of new techniques, enhancement of existing techniques, and validation studies, that aid in characterization of Fs Weldments of Aluminium alloys. Methods: The objective is achieved by utilization and development of models and utilities like
(i) Modeling activities,
(ii) Simulation procedures,
(iii) Experimentation,
(iv) Metallurgical analysis.
(b) Broad Objective:Design and Fabrication of Various Tools for FS Welding of aluminium alloys Scope of work: The work involves design and development of various tools for various applications, eg. automobile parts.Conceptual design, detailing, analysis for thermal aspects, optimization and computer aided manufacturing are within the scope of work.
Methods: The work involves utilization of simulation, drafting and other CAD/ CAM/CAE tools.
